Albert Einstein explained that mass is able to warp the fabric of space-time and thus creating gravity. In his general 
theory of relativity back in 1916,  Albert Einstein also predicted the existance of gravitational waves. He believed that
gravitational waves would be 'ripples' in the fabric of space-time, that are capable of traveling through space at the 
speed of light.

Einstein theorized that gravitational waves would be caused by the interation between massive objects orbiting each other.
Some objects that could produce gravitational waves include neutron stars and black holes. The strongest gravitational
waves are thought to be produced by catastrophic events like; colliding black holes, supernovae or the coalescing of neutron 
stars or white dwarf stars.

Evidence to prove the existance of gravitational waves wouldn't appear until 1974, nearly 20 years after Einstein's death. 
Two astronomers at the Arecibo Radio Observatory in Puerto Rico discovered a binary pulsar. According to general relativity the 
two extremely dense stars in the binary pulsar would produce gravitational waves as they orbited each other. After 8 years of
observations, astronomers concluded that the two stars were approaching each other at "precisely the rate predicted by 
general relativity." Over the course of 40 years, many astronomers have studied other pulsars and found similar results, which 
further supports the claim that graviational waves exist. In september 2015, the Laser Interfermoter Graviational-Wave 
Observitory (LIGO) detected distortions that are believed to have been generated by two colliding black holes 
nearly 1.3 billion light years away.

To learn about the universe astronomers normally would study electromagnetic radiation, and more recently neutrinos. But some
astronomical events like the collision of black holes normally emit little to no electromagnetic radiation. For such events
gravitational waves can provide information that electromagnetic radiation just simply can't. Gravitational waves are also
thought to only weakly interact with matter, allowing the waves to travel through the universe virtually unimpeded. 

It took nearly 100 years, but astronomers have confirmed Einstein's prediction of the existence of gravitational waves. Going
forward astronomers can use gravitational waves to learn about the parts of the universe that would normally be inaccessable.
Not just that the study of gravitational waves will bring with it information about the nature of gravity itself.

